# DSA-Analysis-and-Design
Throughout project one we were tasked with creating pseudocode detailing the creation of three different data structures: a vector, a hash table, and a binary tree. By analyzing each structure, I came to the conclusion that a hash table would be the best choice for project two. In project two we were tasked with creating code to read a file of courses, add it to our data structure, search and print a given course, and print a sorted list of all courses.  

For the creation of the hash table, I based it off the previous hash table project we completed and altered it to suit this project. For the functions used to search and print all courses and the menu I did research and formulated code that would work for each task. I did run into a couple errors I did not understand, in which searching them online provided no clarification. In the end I figured out the issues. The second course in the text file was not being added to the hash table. The solution was simple, and I only needed to change newNode.key = UINT_MAX to newNode.key = key on one of the lines. The other was a bit more confusing and came from a couple minor errors in the way I created the pointer in the function to search a course. It was difficult to identify these errors since the incorrect code had proper syntax and the errors were found in other files with very ambiguous error statements. 

In the end I think a vector would have provided a much simpler path to complete this project, but the hash table provided an interesting challenge. While a hash table provides a very simple way to search for a course, I ended up putting all the courses in a vector to sort them and printing all the sorted courses was rather complicated.  

I previously have only used vectors on my projects and gaining an understanding of more data structures seems as though it will be very useful in the future. Each one fills its own niche and having them at my disposal will surely help my projects. I am glad I chose to use a hash table for this project. While it may have been more difficult than a vector, I think gaining that additional understanding of something more complex will serve me better moving forward. 

I think creating maintainable, readable, and adaptable code is extremely important. Having code that can be reused entirely or changed to fit another project it so incredibly useful. Having the code for creating the hash table from a previous project helped so much with this one and I think I will be able to reuse much of the code from this project again in the future.  

